README.md, before:

# Snappy turtlebot3c

[![Snap Status](https://build.snapcraft.io/badge/canonical/turtlebot3c-snap.svg)](https://build.snapcraft.io/user/canonical/turtlebot3c-snap)

`turtlebot3c` packaged as a snap.  
`turtlebot3c` is a collection of `launchfiles` and configuration files to ease working with the Turtlebot3.
The snap is meant to be run with the simulation, allowing one to quickly get an up and running Turtlebot3 application.

- See the [Turtlebot3 website](http://emanual.robotis.com/docs/en/platform/turtlebot3/overview/).
- See the [turtlebot3c repo](https://github.com/canonical/turtlebot3c).

## How to install

```terminal
sudo snap install turtlebot3c --channel=noetic-gazebo/lasest
```

## Start the simulation
```bash
TURTLEBOT3_MODEL=waffle_pi roslaunch turtlebot3_gazebo turtlebot3_world.launch
```

## How to use

The snap is composed of 5 applications:
- core
- teleop
- key
- mapping
- navigation

### core
The `core` app is a daemon that is automatically started when the robot is turned on.
It starts the `robot_state_publisher` only since the robot is meant to be spawned by the simulation
At boot, the robot is simply ready to be used.

### teleop
The `teleop` app is a daemon that is automatically started when the robot is turned on.
It allows for controlling the robot from multiple sources such as the keyboard (e.g. [key_teleop](http://wiki.ros.org/key_teleop)),
a remote controller (e.g. [joy_teleop](http://wiki.ros.org/joy_teleop)) or leave it to the navigation stack.
The input to use is managed by the [mux](http://wiki.ros.org/topic_tools/mux) node. It can be changed through a rosservice call such as,
```terminal
rosservice call /mux/select "topic: 'joy_vel'"
```

### key
The `key` app allows the keyboard to control the robot.
See also the `teleop` application for further details.

To start the app, simply type the following command,
```terminal
turtlebot3c.key
```
This command automatically select 'key_vel' as the input for the [mux](http://wiki.ros.org/topic_tools/mux) node.

### mapping
The `mapping` app allows the robot to build a representation of its environment as a map usable by the navigation stack.
To launch the mapping, simply type the following command:
```terminal
turtlebot3c.mapping
```
Drive your robot around in order to map your environment.
Notice that you can monitor the process through Rviz.
Once the entire environment covered, stop the mapping by pressing `ctrl+c`.
This will stop the process and automatically save the map as
`$SNAP_USER_COMMON/map/${DATE}.yaml`.
Furthermore, a softlink to the newly created map is created at
`$SNAP_USER_COMMON/map/current_map.yaml`. The `navigation` stack will automatically use the softlinked map.
This command automatically select 'key_vel' as the input for the [mux](http://wiki.ros.org/topic_tools/mux) node.


### navigation
The `navigation` app encompasses the whole autonomous navigation stack.
It allows the robot to move autonomously in its environment, from its current location to a desired goal while avoiding obstacles.
To start the navigation app, simply type the following command:
```terminal
turtlebot3c.navigation
```
It will start the whole navigation stack and use the last map built with the
`mapping` app found at `$SNAP_USER_COMMON/map`.
This command automatically select 'nav_vel' as the input for the [mux](http://wiki.ros.org/topic_tools/mux) node and switch back to 'key_vel' on exit.

Commit message:

feat(joy): add a joy application

README.md, after:

# Snappy turtlebot3c

[![Snap Status](https://build.snapcraft.io/badge/canonical/turtlebot3c-snap.svg)](https://build.snapcraft.io/user/canonical/turtlebot3c-snap)

`turtlebot3c` packaged as a snap.  
`turtlebot3c` is a collection of `launchfiles` and configuration files to ease working with the Turtlebot3.
The snap is meant to be run with the simulation, allowing one to quickly get an up and running Turtlebot3 application.

- See the [Turtlebot3 website](http://emanual.robotis.com/docs/en/platform/turtlebot3/overview/).
- See the [turtlebot3c repo](https://github.com/canonical/turtlebot3c).

## How to install

```terminal
sudo snap install turtlebot3c --channel=noetic-gazebo/lasest
```

## Start the simulation
```bash
TURTLEBOT3_MODEL=waffle_pi roslaunch turtlebot3_gazebo turtlebot3_world.launch
```

## How to use

The snap is composed of 5 applications:
- core
- teleop
- key
- mapping
- navigation

### core
The `core` app is a daemon that is automatically started when the robot is turned on.
It starts the `robot_state_publisher` only since the robot is meant to be spawned by the simulation
At boot, the robot is simply ready to be used.

### teleop
The `teleop` app is a daemon that is automatically started when the robot is turned on.
It allows for controlling the robot from multiple sources such as the keyboard (e.g. [key_teleop](http://wiki.ros.org/key_teleop)),
a remote controller (e.g. [joy_teleop](http://wiki.ros.org/joy_teleop)) or leave it to the navigation stack.
The input to use is managed by the [mux](http://wiki.ros.org/topic_tools/mux) node. It can be changed through a rosservice call such as,
```terminal
rosservice call /mux/select "topic: 'joy_vel'"
```

### key
The `key` app allows the keyboard to control the robot.
See also the `teleop` application for further details.

To start the app, simply type the following command,
```terminal
turtlebot3c.key
```
This command automatically select 'key_vel' as the input for the [mux](http://wiki.ros.org/topic_tools/mux) node.

### joy
The `joy` app allows the joystick to control the robot.
See also the `teleop` application for further details.

To start the app, simply type the following command,
```terminal
turtlebot3c.joy
```
This command automatically select 'joy_vel' as the input for the [mux](http://wiki.ros.org/topic_tools/mux) node.

### mapping
The `mapping` app allows the robot to build a representation of its environment as a map usable by the navigation stack.
To launch the mapping, simply type the following command:
```terminal
turtlebot3c.mapping
```
Drive your robot around in order to map your environment.
Notice that you can monitor the process through Rviz.
Once the entire environment covered, stop the mapping by pressing `ctrl+c`.
This will stop the process and automatically save the map as
`$SNAP_USER_COMMON/map/${DATE}.yaml`.
Furthermore, a softlink to the newly created map is created at
`$SNAP_USER_COMMON/map/current_map.yaml`. The `navigation` stack will automatically use the softlinked map.
This command automatically select 'key_vel' as the input for the [mux](http://wiki.ros.org/topic_tools/mux) node.


### navigation
The `navigation` app encompasses the whole autonomous navigation stack.
It allows the robot to move autonomously in its environment, from its current location to a desired goal while avoiding obstacles.
To start the navigation app, simply type the following command:
```terminal
turtlebot3c.navigation
```
It will start the whole navigation stack and use the last map built with the
`mapping` app found at `$SNAP_USER_COMMON/map`.
This command automatically select 'nav_vel' as the input for the [mux](http://wiki.ros.org/topic_tools/mux) node and switch back to 'key_vel' on exit.
